NCDB-View
---------

A web-based dashboard for exploring and visualizing 
meteorological and marine data stored in ncdb SQLite 
databases. ncdb-view provides a fast, interactive way 
to scan dataset cycles, inspect available observation spaces,
and preview geophysical variables (like Sea Surface 
Temperature or Salinity) without writing any Python code.

Features Interactive Data Browser: Navigate datasets, 
cycles, and variables via a clean web interface.
Instant Plotting: Integrated with the ncdb plotting engine 
to generate spatial maps on the fly.
HPC Ready: Designed to run in headless environments with a 
FastAPI/Uvicorn backend.


Installation
------------
Since ncdb-view depends on the core ncdb library, 
it is recommended to install both into a clean virtual 
environment.

# 1. Create and activate a virtual environment
```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```

# 2. Install ncdb-view (this will automatically pull core ncdb)
```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/givelberg/ncdb-view.git
```

Usage
-----
Once installed, the ncdb-view command is added to your path.
Point it at your .db file:
```bash
ncdb-view --db /path/to/your/marine.db
```
If you do not have a .db file yet, provide a name for it,
and it will be generated by the scanner.

By default, the server will start on
[http://127.0.0.1:8734](http://127.0.0.1:8734).


Running on NCEP/HPC (Using an ssh tunnel)
-----------------------------------------
If you are running the viewer on a remote node (e.g., on ursa),
you will need to set up an SSH Tunnel from your local laptop
to view the interface in your browser.


An example of establishing the tunnel to ursa:
----------------------------------------------
Step 0:
ssh to ursa and notice the login message, like:

```
Local port 56373 forwarded to remote host.
Remote port 2838 forwarded to local host.
```

Write down the local port forwarded to the remote host:
it is 56373 in the example above.

Step 1.
In your first window login using:
```bash
ssh -L 56373:127.0.0.1:56373 John.Steffen@ursa-rsa.boulder.rdhpcs.noaa.gov
```

Step 2:
In your second window login using:
```bash
ssh -p 56373 -L 8734:127.0.0.1:8734 John.Steffen@127.0.0.1
```
Notice: 8734 is the port number that needs to be consistent
with the port number used by ncdb-viewer


Run the application on ursa:
```bash
ncdb-view --db /path/to/your/marine.db
```

In the browser on your laptop:

Navigate to http://localhost:8734.


Configuration
-------------

| Argument | Description | Default |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `--db` | Path to the SQLite database file | *Required* |
| `--port` | The port to run the server on | `8000` |
